>> Steve Kinney: So now, what if we
wanted to refine something again,
like in TypeScript, we don't get
a lot of programmability right, but
in JavaScript, you can program things.
That's the selling point of JavaScript.
So I've got a stupid little function here,
which is, like, a way, like, is prime.
So if we wanted to have an only allowed
to be prime numbers if the question is,
why would you want this,
I don't have an answer for you, right.
At some point when you get
onto challenge number five,
you start the coffee starts hitting and
you get creative all of a sudden.
So how do we go about doing that, we can
go ahead and kind of take one of these
things we saw before, so
in this case, we want a prime number.
So we can do that z.number, because they
don't all have to be objects that said,
if it was talking and typing at
the same time, if it is just a number,
you could argue, could I have just
done type of number you could have, or
type of equals, equals string.
Yes, but in this case, we can also do
a few more powerful things and like, with
the kind of putting it all together and
nesting, it becomes interesting as well.
So we'll say refine, the one good thing
about copilot sometimes is that, like,
if you've done this enough times in
the same repo, because I you have a branch
called main, I have a branch called
dry run and practice and rehearsal and
people will think I'm live coding,
but I've done this a thousand times.
And so it has been trained on those on
mine so if your suggestions are not nearly
as good,
it's because I have put in the hours.
Cool, so I don't like that
suggestion though actually.
Okay, so we'll say is prime, so
it'll first check to see if it's
a number and then it will, like,
pass that number through this function
to make sure it is what you think it is.
So again, probably like, also useful for
a string of a particular format,
a string that matches a given regex,
right.
If we wanted to, I don't know if there's
a built in helper for a zip code, but
you could refine it to say,
yeah, it should be a string.
It should have a length of five and
also it should be your match this
regex where it's five numbers, right?
Or it's a zip code and I'm totally cool
with it being five numbers or a hyphen,
and then four more digits for a US, longer
zip code, so on and so forth, right?
Like, the idea that you can, like,
add that little extra stuff and again,
trying at that point to save you
a bunch of other things as well.
The other thing that we'll do here
is you can see this error is like,
that's unique, right?
And so like, we are throwing,
if I just turn this into like,
to throw, I think, can I take that out?
Like it obviously throws, but
you can actually define more helpful error
messages, why would you want to do this?
Okay, it didn't validate
on the API level and
I want to send back a 400 with
like actual helpful information.
Formation that is not like me just
leaking Zod error messages all over
the place, right?
You could then include that error
message in the 400 response,
or you using as Zod schema for
form validation, right?
And you want to be able to say like,
hey, for this input field,
feel this is, email address
must include whatever, right?
That's not a valid URL, so on and so
forth, so you can always like for
a lot of these,
also add in a message, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Cool and
now they pass, all right?
The transform we can kind
of take a look at as well,
which is, there are lots of
things that we deal with that
do not serialize into JSON super well,
all right.
And a lot of times we can't send full
on JavaScript, objects over the wire,
we can only send JSON that we
can rehydrate back in there.
One of the things that usually comes up
is a date and stuff along those lines,
we do wanna make sure that at
first it's a string, right?
Because otherwise,
what am I transforming, right?
We could say, like,
it's a string or a date already,
I don't hate that idea but,
like, I know that,
like in this very fictitious example,
it's coming back as from a JSON API.
And the cool thing is, because you
already validated that it's a string,
this value here is typed as a string.
Right, you don't, it's not unknown
it's like you've already figured out
part of what it is you know,
it's a string of some sort, right.
So now typescript is already
inferred that it is a string, and
you can, kind of, like,
move on with your life and so now you can,
like, create a new date out of it,
in this case as well.
And so because again, this is string,
we hope that when we have new date,
if that ends up with,
like, something invalid,
that we know that it was not a date,
right.
Because, like, we check to see,
again, libraries like super
JSON will also do something very similar
for you, in terms of doing that coercion.
But it's pretty cool to be able to do
yourself in a pinch if you don't want to
pull in another library.
So let's make sure that
as I was talking and
typing that I was not doing
things that were silly, right?
And so like if you check it out, we parse
it and we know already, like if you look
at the Typescript type, it has already
inferred this is actually a date, right?
Just by the act of parsing it, and
then we I check it 1000 more times.
We can turn it back into a string,
if we want to, great and like, if it's not
a date, we throw with like, our like,
our own special error messages, right?
If it throws, that's how you know it
didn't pass the validation, right.
All that safe parse really does is it
puts your parsing in a try-catch block.
That's it throwing is the act of failing,
okay.
There is a concept in TypeScript
called a branded type, which is, and
I'll kind of show you
what that is in a second.
So kind of just put the answer in
the assignment on this one but
I think it's because I wanted
to show it at the time.
So we've got this user schema and
then if we look it's like string and
brand is user ID, which is,
this is a TypeScript trick,
which is, if you wanna say,
I went through a lot of work to make
sure this string is an email address or
this string is a UUID.
Type script is like cool as a string,
right?
And so a lot of times,
you will see this move, and
there's a bunch of different ways to do.
It's a string, and, like, some and there's
a bunch of different ways to do it as
a string and like, some weird metadata
that doesn't like really exist, right?
And so now, if something says,
>> Steve Kinney: In this case,
like,
>> Steve Kinney: X is a user ID, and
I just give it a strength you'll see,
it's like,
hey, no, I needed to be a user ID, right?
So you do think, I'm gonna check to see
if that string was in fact a user ID and
if it is then it'll match that type.
It's like there's not
necessarily a sad thing,
it's a little typescript trick
to make sure, because, again,
typescript only has A string type and this
is a way to say, but my special string.
But then you will always have to check
to make sure it is first, right?
Even if it is a value from anywhere
else in your code base, you will have
to do some logic to confirm that it is in
fact a UUID in this case but it works.
Like we said before,
there's this idea of pick,
partial omit,
why would you ever want to do this?
Very good reasons you might have let's
yeah, we're gonna build a to do list,
as I discussed, right?
A task that's in the database has an ID,
right?
One that you are just creating, that
you're sending to the API doesn't yet.
So, like, you might only want parts of it,
but then, like,
what happens if we want
to update the object?
Do I wanna make them pass in the entire
full object again or do I say, like,
give me a subset of the properties and
I will update the object?
So a lot of times they
can all be optional,
because if as long as I get an object,
if it's all empty, then we do no updates.
If it's everything,
we update everything, or
maybe I want partial of everything, but
like yo, the Id can't change right?
Some of these tools make it a lot easier
to do that so with a full user schema.
In this case,
what is this one expecting, so we've got
the kind of earlier one that we wrote
with the addresses so on and so forth.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, use my address
schema from earlier, isn't that nice of
it, great and so here we've got that
full schema and then a partial so
say like, any like, give me a version
of that's all optional, right?
Because if we look here, we say,
type user, I got, I.
>> Steve Kinney: You can see that,
yeah, in this case,
every part of this, except for
the apartment number,
is in this case,
>> Steve Kinney: Is in this case,
like required, if I do the partial
version of it, we can go ahead and
say partial is just going
to be full user schema.
You can see there's some methods on it,
full user schema.partial, right?
And so this is obviously, if you look,
it looks complicated but
if we look at the type that came out,
if we say something
like type partial user,
now you can see that all of
the properties are optional and
they can be undefined, right, cool.
And so like, let's say we only
wanted to show, like, the names and
the addresses or
something like that, right which is,
it's in the test my font is very
big right now, so we'll do like,
full user schema.pick, and
we'll say the properties that we want.
And the nice part is, like,
if you try to put a bogus one in there,
it knows that that's not on the type,
right.
Zod is doing under the hood, kind of
updating types as it goes along you can't
put in fields that aren't there, because
it's already it knows that in that way,
you're extending that full user schema
from earlier cool or one without email.
So it's, you know, dot .omit and so
this will be everything but
the email field, right?
So you can start out with like, you don't
have to necessarily make a whole bunch of
these by hand and
update them all one at a time.
So on and so
forth you can kinda take a base and
then derive and
refine the other ones from that.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, all right,
then we have a fun one,
this one I use far too often for
this exact purpose, so
I wasn't even particularly
feeling creative at this point.
Which is sometimes you need, we said
there was that email, there was a UUID,
but sometimes I want something
like a hex color, right.
Or an RGB, or something along those lines,
and I need to make sure it's that kind of
string again, TypeScript is not
helping me so much in that case.
So I can do something like this as well,
so we'll say that this is a z.custom and
you do have to give it some kind
of hint into what it can expect
cause like you're now,
you're totally doing your own thing.
You're like,
it should be based on a string, right.
Make sure it's a string first,
or assume it's a string, and
then you know some way to
say that it's a hex code.
You could you know whether it's a regex,
whether you want to check it
into what other ways I think this has got
to be three or six according to my tests.
He says, I'm live regexing now
that's gonna go real well for me.
>> Steve Kinney: No,
I didn't cool that's between three and
six that's like live regexing reg got me.
We'll say either 3 or 6 and so
now this will verify that it is,
it'll work on, three digit hex color.
It will work on a six digit hexadecimal,
hex color,
but it will fail if it doesn't
have all the various things.
You could do this same thing for
like, RGB colors,
anything in your code base
where it's like, it's got to
match this exact thing I got a lot of
rules on what this thing ought to be.
The nice part is I can make
this schema once and use it and
reference it in all my other types and
never think about this again.
I now have a way all throughout my app
to do this as well and like previously,
if I was just, using a type guard
function, I would probably have to
validate all the time all over the place,
is this actually a hex color?
Right, now I can say that if the large
object passes because it will
automatically be typed as
a hex color in this case.
>> Audience 1: What does
that get inferred into?
>> Steve Kinney: I'm pretty sure this
one will get inferred as a string,
and I had to brand it, so
that's a great question let's see
if I can do it live, let's test me.
And so, it is a string, but
I think I can do a brand, yeah.
And give it the brand of a hex color, and
now it is accepted wherever hex colors
are accepted it is like,
it obviously is also a string, right?
And so anything that accepts a string
will accept this hex color and
then anything that's like, no, no, no, no.
It's got to be a hex color,
this is now accepted wherever
hex colors are accepted, right?
So you can do that branding very easily
as well, that's just a utility method.
You saw the other way that I could
do in the comments as well but
incredibly powerful pattern just for just
general typescript use cases, all right?
And then finally, like this one, we will
probably just hand away over a little bit,
because it is a culmination of
a bunch of things, but the ability to,
kind of, like, pull them all together and
have a bunch of different pieces that you
use that you can then make useful as well.
Let's just look at that one, because I
think watching me type that is like,
not that fun, so, yeah,
>> Steve Kinney: So
in this case, like,
we can break it out to being like, okay,
username with the arbitrary rules that
I made of like four to 16 characters,
passwords gotta be a string
that is minimum eight, right?
And then I can test to say it has to
have at least one digit in it obviously.
You can take this to its
natural conclusion as well and
then you can say what error message it
should throw if that didn't happen again,
you do have some of these built in ones.
We can take a look at
the sidebar in the docs,
there's email there's definitely
IP address, UUID-URL.
Those are the only ones I've ever used,
so there's probably more too, yeah,
and a birth date is again,
we're gooing to make sure it's a date.
I could have probably grabbed that date,
one from earlier as well and yeah,
this is the same one we saw, and then this
registration form is just basically built
out of these other schemas, right?
So I don't have to do this all the time,
I can get some of those primitives
in place and move on with my life.